Radiant Seafoam Goblin

High

# _calculateMaxBorrowCollateral function will revert in extreme market conditions leading to liquidations.

### Summary

 The _calculateMaxBorrowCollateral function can incorrectly calculate repay limits, leading to failed repayments and potential contract liquidation under certain conditions.

### Root Cause

The issue stems from how the function calculates the netBorrowLimit and uses it to determine whether a repay can be made. Specifically, the function adjusts the collateral value by both the liquidation loan-to-value (lltv) ratio and the unutilized leverage percentage. This adjustment leads to a scenario where if the borrowBalance exceeds the calculated netBorrowLimit, the function reverts, making it impossible to perform repayments.

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-10-morpho-x-index/blob/main/index-coop-smart-contracts/contracts/adapters/MorphoLeverageStrategyExtension.sol#L1121-L1138

### Internal pre-conditions

_No response_

### External pre-conditions

Extreme market conditions.

### Attack Path

Let assume the following:
Collateral asset: ETH
Borrow asset: USDT
Collateral balance: 100 ETH
ETH price: 2,000 USD (reported with 36 decimals)
Borrow balance: 100,000 USDT (no decimals for simplicity)
Liquidation Loan-to-Value (LLTV): 80% (maximum allowed leverage, set by Morpho market)
Unutilized leverage percentage: 20% (set by the protocol)
MORPHO_ORACLE_PRICE_SCALE: 1e36 (both price and scaling factor are set to 36 decimals)

netBorrowLimit = 128,000USDT

If ETH price drops from 2,000 USD to 1,500 USD, the net borrow limit would now be: 96,000 USDT.
In the case of delever this function will revert since Borrow balance > netBorrowLimit. 



### Impact

This incorrect calculation can leave positions in a state where they are un-repayable leading to unwanted liquidations.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

This issue was reported for the AAVE integration of this protocol and the fix there can be the case here as well which  is not using unutilized leverage percentage when calculating the repay amount.